# arxiv一周文献泛读20210114_15

### [A bright gamma-ray flare interpreted as a giant magnetar flare in NGC 253](./2101.05104.pdf)
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.05104

<details>
<summary>details</summary>

Authors: D. Svinkin, D. Frederiks, K. Hurley et al.
Comments


</details>




Magnetars are young, highly magnetized neutron stars that produce extremely rare giant flares of gamma-rays, the most luminous astrophysical phenomena in our Galaxy. The detection of these flares from outside the Local Group of galaxies has been predicted, with just two candidates so far. Here we report on the extremely bright gamma-ray flare GRB 200415A of April 15, 2020, which we localize, using the Interplanetary Network, to a tiny (20 sq. arcmin) area on the celestial sphere, that overlaps the central region of the Sculptor galaxy at 3.5 Mpc from the Milky Way. From the Konus-Wind detections, we find a striking similarity between GRB 200415A and GRB 051103, the even more energetic flare that presumably originated from the M81/M82 group of galaxies at nearly the same distance (3.6 Mpc). Both bursts display a sharp, millisecond-scale, hard-spectrum initial pulse, followed by an approximately 0.2 s long steadily fading and softening tail. Apart from the huge initial pulses of magnetar giant flares, no astrophysical signal with this combination of temporal and spectral properties and implied energy has been reported previously. At the inferred distances, the energy released in both flares is on par with that of the December 27, 2004 superflare from the Galactic magnetar SGR 1806-20, but with a higher peak luminosity. Taken all together, this makes GRB 200415A and its twin GRB 051103 the most significant candidates for extragalactic magnetar giant flares, both a factor of five more luminous than the brightest Galactic magnetar flare observed previously, thus providing an important step towards a better understanding of this fascinating phenomenon.

Identification of a Local Sample of Gamma-Ray Bursts Consistent with a Magnetar Giant Flare Origin
E. Burns, D. Svinkin, K. Hurley, Z. Wadiasingh
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.05144
Cosmological Gamma-Ray Bursts (GRBs) are known to arise from distinct progenitor channels: short GRBs mostly from neutron star mergers and long GRBs from a rare type of core-collapse supernova (CCSN) called collapsars. Highly magnetized neutron stars called magnetars also generate energetic, short-duration gamma-ray transients called Magnetar Giant Flares (MGFs). Three have been observed from the Milky Way and its satellite galaxies and they have long been suspected to contribute a third class of extragalactic GRBs. We report the unambiguous identification of a distinct population of 4 local (<5 Mpc) short GRBs, adding GRB 070222 to previously discussed events. While identified solely based on alignment to nearby star-forming galaxies, their rise time and isotropic energy release are independently inconsistent with the larger short GRB population at >99.9% confidence. These properties, the host galaxies, and non-detection in gravitational waves all point to an extragalactic MGF origin. Despite the small sample, the inferred volumetric rates for events above 4×1044 erg of RMGF=3.8+4.0−3.1×105 Gpc−3 yr−1 place MGFs as the dominant gamma-ray transient detected from extragalactic sources. As previously suggested, these rates imply that some magnetars produce multiple MGFs, providing a source of repeating GRBs. The rates and host galaxies favor common CCSN as key progenitors of magnetars. 

The Physics of Fast Radio Bursts
Di Xiao, Fayin Wang, Zigao Dai
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04907
 In 2007, a very bright radio pulse was identified in the archival data of the Parkes Telescope in Australia, marking the beginning of a new research branch in astrophysics. In 2013, this kind of millisecond bursts with extremely high brightness temperature takes a unified name, fast radio burst (FRB). Over the first few years, FRBs seemed very mysterious because the sample of known events was limited. With the improvement of instruments over the last five years, hundreds of new FRBs have been discovered. The field is now undergoing a revolution and understanding of FRB has rapidly increased as new observational data increasingly accumulates. In this review, we will summarize the basic physics of FRBs and discuss the current research progress in this area. We have tried to cover a wide range of FRB topics, including the observational property, propagation effect, population study, radiation mechanism, source model, and application in cosmology. A framework based on the latest observational facts is now under construction. In the near future, this exciting field is expected to make significant breakthroughs. 

The Physics of Accretion Discs, Winds And Jets in Tidal Disruption Events
Jane Lixin Dai, Giuseppe Lodato, Roseanne M. Cheng
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.05195
Accretion onto black holes is an efficient mechanism in converting the gas mass-energy into energetic outputs as radiation, wind and jet. Tidal disruption events, in which stars are tidally torn apart and then accreted onto supermassive black holes, offer unique opportunities of studying the accretion physics as well as the wind and jet launching physics across different accretion regimes. In this review, we systematically describe and discuss the models that have been developed to study the accretion flows and jets in tidal disruption events. A good knowledge of these physics is not only needed for understanding the emissions of the observed events, but also crucial for probing the general relativistic space-time around black holes and the demographics of supermassive black holes via tidal disruption events. 

SN 2013ai: a link between hydrogen-rich and hydrogen-poor core-collapse supernovae
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.05424
We present a study of optical and near-infrared (NIR) spectra along with the light curves of SN 2013ai. These data range from discovery until 380 days after explosion. SN 2013ai is a fast declining type II supernova (SN II) with an unusually long rise time; 18.9±2.7d in V band and a bright V band peak absolute magnitude of −18.7±0.06 mag. The spectra are dominated by hydrogen features in the optical and NIR. The spectral features of SN 2013ai are unique in their expansion velocities, which when compared to large samples of SNe II are more than 1,000 kms faster at 50 days past explosion. In addition, the long rise time of the light curve more closely resembles SNe IIb rather than SNe II. If SN 2013ai is coeval with a nearby compact cluster we infer a progenitor ZAMS mass of ∼17 M⊙. After performing light curve modeling we find that SN 2013ai could be the result of the explosion of a star with little hydrogen mass, a large amount of synthesized 56Ni, 0.3-0.4 M⊙, and an explosion energy of 2.5−3.0×1051 ergs. The density structure and expansion velocities of SN 2013ai are similar to that of the prototypical SN IIb, SN 1993J. However, SN 2013ai shows no strong helium features in the optical, likely due to the presence of a dense core that prevents the majority of γ-rays from escaping to excite helium. Our analysis suggests that SN 2013ai could be a link between SNe II and stripped envelope SNe. 

Alternative possibility of GW190521: Gravitational waves from high-mass black hole-disk systems
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.05440
We evolve high-mass disks of mass 15−50M⊙ orbiting a 50M⊙ spinning black hole in the framework of numerical relativity. Such high-mass systems could be an outcome during the collapse of rapidly-rotating very-massive stars. The massive disks are dynamically unstable to the so-called one-armed spiral-shape deformation with the maximum fractional density-perturbation of δρ/ρ≳0.1, and hence, high-amplitude gravitational waves are emitted. The waveforms are characterized by an initial high-amplitude burst with the frequency of ∼40−50 Hz and the maximum amplitude of (1−10)×10−22 at the hypothetical distance of 100 Mpc and by a subsequent low-amplitude quasi-periodic oscillation. We illustrate that the waveforms in our models with a wide range of the disk mass resemble that of GW190521. We also point out that gravitational waves from rapidly-rotating very-massive stars can be the source for 3rd-generation gravitational-wave detectors for exploring the formation process of rapidly-rotating high-mass black holes of mass ∼50−100M⊙ in an early universe. 

