# arxiv一周文献泛读20210104_06

## 210105

### [The Konus-Wind catalog of gamma-ray bursts with known redshifts. II. Waiting mode bursts simultaneously detected by Swift/BAT](./2012.14849.pdf)

https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.14849

<details>
<summary>details</summary>

Authors: A. Tsvetkova, D. Frederiks, D. Svinkin, R. Aptekar, T. L. Cline, S. Golenetskii, K. Hurley, A. Lysenko, A. Ridnaia, M. Ulanov
Comments: Accepted for publication in ApJ; 41 pages, 5 figures, 7 tables. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1710.08746

In the Second part of The Konus-Wind Catalog of Gamma-Ray Bursts with Known Redshifts (first part: Tsvetkova et al. 2017; T17), we present the results of a systematic study of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) with reliable redshift estimates detected simultaneously by the Konus-Wind (KW) experiment (in the waiting mode) and by the Swift/BAT (BAT) telescope during the period from 2005 January to the end of 2018. By taking advantage of the high sensitivity of BAT and the wide spectral band of KW we were able to constrain the peak spectral energies, the broadband energy fluences, and the peak fluxes for the joint KW-BAT sample of 167 weak, relatively soft GRBs (including four short bursts). Based on the GRB redshifts, which span the range 0.04≤z≤9.4, we estimate the rest-frame, isotropic-equivalent energy, and peak luminosity. For 14 GRBs with reasonably constrained jet breaks, we provide the collimation-corrected values of the energetics. This work extends the sample of KW GRBs with known redshifts to 338 GRBs, the largest set of cosmological GRBs studied to date over a broad energy band. With the full KW sample, accounting for the instrumental bias, we explore GRB rest-frame properties, including hardness-intensity correlations, GRB luminosity evolution, luminosity and isotropic-energy functions, and the evolution of the GRB formation rate, which we find to be in general agreement with those reported in T17 and other previous studies. 

- 研究样本：2005年1月到2018年末期间，KW(waiting mode)和BAT(triggered mode)同时探测到的有可靠红移估计的GRBs
  - 将这样的样本扩充至338个
- 限制167个较弱且相对较软GRB（包括4个短暴）的peak spectral energies，broadband fluences(10 keV–10 MeV), 以及peak fluxes。
- 利用红移(跨度0.04≤z≤9.4)计算静系各项同性能量和峰值光度
- 对于14个有采样充分的jet break的GRB，研究了准直修正的能量
- 利用KW全样本(316个长暴)，研究了GRB静系下性质，包括hardness-intensity correlations, GRB luminosity evolution, luminosity and isotropic-energy functions, and the evolution of the GRB formation rate，这些与first part以及以往的研究相符

</details>

Spectrum and Morphology of the Very-High-Energy Source HAWC J2019+368
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.01649
The MGRO J2019+37 region is one of the brightest sources in the sky at TeV energies. It was detected in the 2 year HAWC catalog as 2HWC J2019+367 and here we present a detailed study of this region using data from HAWC. This analysis resolves the region into two sources: HAWC J2019+368 and HAWC J2016+371. We associate HAWC J2016+371 with the evolved supernova remnant CTB 87, although its low significance in this analysis prevents a detailed study at this time. An investigation of the morphology (including possible energy dependent morphology) and spectrum for HAWC J2019+368 is the focus of this work. We associate HAWC J2019+368 with PSR J2021+3651 and its X-ray pulsar wind nebula, the Dragonfly nebula. Modeling the spectrum measured by HAWC and Suzaku reveals a ∼7 kyr pulsar and nebula system producing the observed emission at X-ray and γ-ray energies. 

Evaluation of scientific CMOS sensors for sky survey applications
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2101.01517.pdf
Scientific CMOS image sensors are a modern alternative for a typical CCD detectors, as they offer both low read-out noise, large sensitive area, and high frame rates. All these makes them promising devices for a modern wide-field sky surveys. However, the peculiarities of CMOS technology have to be properly taken into account when analyzing the data. In order to characterize these, we performed an extensive laboratory testing of two Andor cameras based on sCMOS chips -- Andor Neo and Andor Marana. Here we report its results, especially on the temporal stability, linearity and image persistence. We also present the results of an on-sky testing of these sensors connected to a wide-field lenses, and discuss its applications for an astronomical sky surveys. 

A multi-band map of the natural night sky brightness including Gaia and Hipparcos integrated starlight
https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.01500
The natural night sky brightness is a relevant input for monitoring the light pollution evolution at observatory sites, by subtracting it from the overall sky brightness determined by direct measurements. It is also instrumental for assessing the expected darkness of the pristine night skies. The natural brightness of the night sky is determined by the sum of the spectral radiances coming from astrophysical sources, including zodiacal light, and the atmospheric airglow. The resulting radiance is modified by absorption and scattering before it reaches the observer. Therefore, the natural night sky brightness is a function of the location, time and atmospheric conditions. We present in this work GAMBONS (GAia Map of the Brightness Of the Natural Sky), a model to map the natural night brightness of the sky in cloudless and moonless nights. Unlike previous maps, GAMBONS is based on the extra-atmospheric star radiance obtained from the Gaia catalogue. The Gaia-DR2 archive compiles astrometric and photometric information for more than 1.6 billion stars up to G = 21 magnitude. For the brightest stars, not included in Gaia-DR2, we have used the Hipparcos catalogue instead. After adding up to the star radiance the contributions of the diffuse galactic and extragalactic light, zodiacal light and airglow, and taking into account the effects of atmospheric attenuation and scattering, the radiance detected by ground-based observers can be estimated. This methodology can be applied to any photometric band, if appropriate transformations from the Gaia bands are available. In particular, we present the expected sky brightness for V (Johnson), and visual photopic and scotopic passbands. 

Non-thermal neutrinos created by shock acceleration in successful and failed core-collapse supernova
https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.15136
We present a comprehensive study of neutrino shock acceleration in core-collapse supernova (CCSN). The leading players are heavy leptonic neutrinos, νμ and ντ; the former and latter potentially gain the energy up to ∼100 MeV and ∼200 MeV, respectively, through the shock acceleration. Demonstrating the neutrino shock acceleration by Monte Carlo neutrino transport, we make a statement that it commonly occurs in the early post bounce phase (≲50 ms after bounce) for all massive stellar collapse experiencing nuclear bounce and would reoccur in the late phase (≳100 ms) for failed CCSNe. This opens up a new possibility to detect high energy neutrinos by terrestrial detectors from Galactic CCSNe; hence, we estimate the event counts for Hyper(Super)-Kamiokande, DUNE, and JUNO. We find that the event count with the energy of ≳80 MeV is a few orders of magnitude higher than that of the thermal neutrinos regardless of the detectors, and muon production may also happen in these detectors by νμ with the energy of ≳100 MeV. The neutrino signals provide a precious information on deciphering the inner dynamics of CCSN and placing a constraint on the physics of neutrino oscillation; indeed, the detection of the high energy neutrinos through charged current reaction channels will be a smoking gun evidence of neutrino flavor conversion. 