# arxiv文献泛读20210215-17

### [The Foundation Supernova Survey: Photospheric Velocity Correlations in Type Ia Supernovae](./2102.06524.pdf)

https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.06524

<details>
<summary>details</summary>

Authors: Kyle G. Dettman, Saurabh W. Jha, Mi Dai et al.
Comments: Submitted to AAS Journals.30 pages

The ejecta velocities of type-Ia supernovae (SNe Ia), as measured by the Si II λ6355 line, have been shown to correlate with other supernova properties, including color and standardized luminosity. We investigate these results using the Foundation Supernova Survey, with a spectroscopic data release presented here, and photometry analyzed with the SALT2 light-curve fitter. We find that the Foundation data do not show significant evidence for an offset in color between SNe Ia with high and normal photospheric velocities, with Δc=0.005±0.014. Our SALT2 analysis does show evidence for redder high-velocity SN Ia in other samples, including objects from the Carnegie Supernova Project, with a combined sample yielding Δc=0.017±0.007. When split on velocity, the Foundation SN Ia also do not show a significant difference in Hubble diagram residual, ΔHR=0.015±0.049 mag. Intriguingly, we find that SN Ia ejecta velocity information may be gleaned from photometry, particularly in redder optical bands. For high-redshift SN Ia, these rest-frame red wavelengths will be observed by the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope. Our results also confirm previous work that SN Ia host-galaxy stellar mass is strongly correlated with ejecta velocity: high-velocity SN Ia are found nearly exclusively in high-stellar-mass hosts. However, host-galaxy properties alone do not explain velocity-dependent differences in supernova colors and luminosities across samples. Measuring and understanding the connection between intrinsic explosion properties and supernova environments, across cosmic time, will be important for precision cosmology with SNe Ia. 

</details>

### [SN 2017hpa: A carbon-rich type Ia supernova](./2102.08121.pdf)

https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.08121

<details>
<summary>details</summary>

Authors: Anirban Dutta, Avinash Singh, G.C. Anupama, D.K. Sahu, Brajesh Kumar
Comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, Accepted for publication in MNRAS

We present the optical (UBVRI) and ultraviolet (Swift-UVOT) photometry, and optical spectroscopy of Type Ia supernova SN 2017hpa. We study broadband UV+optical light curves and low resolution spectroscopy spanning from −13.8 to +108~d from the maximum light in B-band. The photometric analysis indicates that SN 2017hpa is a normal type Ia with ΔmB(15)=0.98±0.16 mag and MB=−19.45±0.15 mag at a distance modulus of μ=34.08±0.09 mag. The (uvw1−uvv) colour evolution shows that SN 2017hpa falls in the NUV-blue group. The (B−V) colour at maximum is bluer in comparison to normal type Ia supernovae. Spectroscopic analysis shows that the Si II 6355 absorption feature evolves rapidly with a velocity gradient, v˙=128±7 km s−1 d−1. The pre-maximum phase spectra show prominent C II 6580 Å absorption feature. The C II 6580 Å line velocity measured from the observed spectra is lower than the velocity of Si II 6355 Å, which could be due to a line of sight effect. The synthetic spectral fits to the pre-maximum spectra using syn++ indicate the presence of a high velocity component in the Si II absorption, in addition to a photospheric component. Fitting the observed spectrum with the spectral synthesis code TARDIS, the mass of unburned C in the ejecta is estimated to be ∼0.019~M⊙. The peak bolometric luminosity is Lbolpeak=1.43×1043 erg s−1. The radiation diffusion model fit to the bolometric light curve indicates 0.61±0.02 M⊙ of 56Ni is synthesized in the explosion.

</details>