# arxiv文献泛读20211004-1005

## 20211004

### [Highly luminous supernovae associated with gamma-ray bursts II. The Luminous Blue Bump in the Afterglow of GRB 140506A](./2110.00110.pdf)

> 与GRB成协的高度明亮的超新星II: GRB140506A余辉当中明亮的蓝色鼓包

type:
comment:

https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.00110

<details>
<summary>details</summary>

authors: D. A. Kann, S. R. Oates, A. Rossi

> Context. The supernovae (SNe) associated with gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are generally seen as a homogenous population, but at least one exception exists, both in terms of luminosity as well as Spectral Energy Distribution (SED). However, this event, SN 2011kl, was associated with an ultra-long GRB 111209A. Do such outliers also exist for more typical GRBs?
>
> Aim. Within the context of a systematic analysis of photometric signatures of GRB-associated SNe, we found an anomalous bump in the late-time transient following GRB 140506A. We hereby aim to show this bump is significantly more luminous and blue than usual SNe following GRBs.
>
> Methods: We compile all available data from the literature, and add a full analysis of the Swift UVOT data, which allows us to trace the light curve from the first minutes all the way to the host galaxy, as well as construct a broad SED of the afterglow that extends the previous SED analysis based on ground-based spectroscopy.
>
> Results. We find robust evidence for a late-time bump/plateau following the afterglow which shows evidence for a strong colour change, with the spectral slope becoming flatter in the blue region of the spectrum. This bump can be interpreted as a luminous SN bump which is spectrally dissimilar to typical GRB-SNe. Correcting it for the large line-of-sight extinction results in extreme values which make the SN associated with GRB 140506A the most luminous detected so far. Even so, it would be in agreement with a luminosity-duration relation of GRB-SNe.
>
> Conclusions.  While not supported by spectroscopic evidence, it is likely the blue bump following GRB 140506A is the signature of a SN which is spectrally dissimilar to classical GRB-SNe and more similar to SN 2011kl – while being associated with an average GRB, indicating the GRB-SN population is more diverse than thought so far, and can reach luminosities comparable to those of superluminous SNe.

</details>




## 20211005

### [Evidence of X-ray plateaus driven by the magnetar spindown winds in gamma-ray burst afterglows](./2109.00727.pdf)

> GRB余辉中磁星减慢星风驱动的X-ray平台的证据

type:
comment:

https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.00727

<details>
<summary>details</summary>

authors: Shu-Jin Hou, Shuang Du, Tong Liu, Hui-Jun Mu, Ren-Xin Xu

> The central engine of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) remains an open and forefront topic in the era of multimessenger astrophysics. The X-ray plateaus appear in some GRB afterglows, which are widely considered to originate from the spindown of magnetars. According to the stable magnetar scenario of GRBs, an X-ray plateau and a decay phase as ∼ t−2 should appear in X-ray afterglows. Meanwhile, the “normal” X-ray afterglow is produced by the external shock from GRB fireball. We analyze the
Neil Gehrels Swift GRB data, then find three gold samples, which have an X-ray plateau and a decay phase as ∼ t−2 superimposed on the jet-driven normal component. Based on these features of the lightcurves, we argue that the magnetars should be the central engines of these three GRBs. Future joint multimessenger observations might further test this possibility, then which can be beneficial to
constrain GRB physics.

</details>